If we have to simulate the entire universe to create the ornaments and the two
of us, how are we supposed to create engineer life?
Yeah. That's.
Uh, in the lab, this goes back to sort of the critique of the RNA world.
I think one of the problems and, and I'll get to answer your question,
but I think this is kind of relevant here. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> one of the problems with the R RNA world. Um,
when we test it in the laboratory is how much information we're putting into the
experiment. Um, we specify the Flass. We make pure reagents, we mix them,
we take them out, we put them in the next flask. We change the pH,
we change the UV light,
and then we get a molecule and it's not even an RNA molecule necessarily.
It might just be a base. Right. Um,
and so people don't usually think about the fact that we're agents in the
universe making that experiment.
And therefore we put a little bit of life into that experiment, um,
because it's part of our biological lineage in the same sense that a couple or I
am a part of the biological lineage, the experiment is.
Our ideas are injecting life yes.
To the, and the constraints that we put on the experiments,
because those conditions wouldn't exist in the universe on planet earth at that
time, without us as the boundary condition. Right. So.
Um, even though we're not actually adding any actual,
like chemistry or biology that it could be identified as life are the
constraints we're adding to the experiment, the design of the experiment. Yeah.
You can think.
Of the design experiment, a program, you put information in it's,
it's an algorithmic procedure that you design the experiment. And so, um,
so the origin life problem becomes one of minimizing the information we put
into physics, right. To actually watch the spontaneous origin life.
Can we, can we have, so can,
is it possible in the lab to have an information vacuum then? So like if.
We could, we would, that would be amazing. I don't know.
That's a good question for more for Lee.
Yeah. You guys, by the way, for people who don't know Lee CRO is, uh,
you guys are, uh, colleagues. Yeah. And, uh, <laugh>,
I've gotten the chance to listen to the two of you talking.
There's great sort of chemistry and you brilliant brainstorming together.
And there's, there's a really exciting community hear of, of, uh,
brilliant people from different disciplines working on the problem. Yeah.
Of life of complexity of, uh, I don't know,
whatever the <laugh> the words fail us to describe the exact problem.
We're trying to actually understand your intelligence,
all those kinds of things. Okay. So what, what, uh,
from a lab perspective, so Lee, I guess, would you call him a chemist?
No, I think by training he's a chemist,
but I think most of the people that work in the field,
we do have lost their discipline.
<laugh> that's why I can't answer your question or whatever. <laugh> OK.
I dunno what you call him. Yeah. I dunno what I call myself.
I don't know what I call any of my friends.
So why, why is it so hard to create, uh,
and it's an interesting question to create biological life in the lab.
Like from your perspective, is that an important problem to work on,
to try to recreate the historical of life on earth
or echoes of the historical.
Origin? I think echoes is more appropriate.
I don't think asking the question of what was the exact historical sequence of
events and engineering every step in the process to make exactly the chemistry
of life on earth. As we know, it is a meaningful way of asking the question,
right. And it's a little bit like, um, you know, if,
since you're in computer science, like if you know the answer to a problem,
it's all, it's easier to find a program to specify the output. Right.
But if you don't know the answer, our priority, you know,
finding an algorithm for like say finding a prime or something, it's easy to,
um, you know, uh, verify it's a prime number.
It's hard to find the next prime and, uh,
the way the original life is structured right now.
And the historical problem is, you know,
the answer and you're trying to retro predict it by breaking it down into the
set of procedures where you're putting a lot of information in.
And what we need to do is ask the question of how is it that the rules
of how our universe is structured, permits,
things like life to exist and what is the phenomena of life.
And those questions are obviously essentially the same question.
And so you're looking essentially for this missing physics,
this missing explanation for what we are,
and you need to set up proper experiments that are gonna allow you to probe the
vast complexity of chemistry in an unconstrained way with as little information
put in as possible to see when things,
when does information actually emerge, how does it emerge? What is it? Um,
and, um, part of the,
the sort of conjecture we have is that this physics only becomes relevant,
or at least this is, this is my personal conjecture and, um, and is sort of, uh,
validated by this kind of theory, experiment collaboration, um, that we,
we have working in this area, um, that this, you know, sort of,
I made the point about like gravity existing, everywhere, right.
But when you study, um, an atomic nucleus, you don't care about gravity.
It's not relevant physics there, right. It's, it's weak, it doesn't matter. Um,
and so, uh, this idea that,
that there's kind of a physics associated with information, um, for me, um,
it's very evident that that physics doesn't become relevant until you need
information to specify the existence of a particular object.
And the scale of reality,
where that happens is in chemistry because of the commonatorial diversity of
chemical checks that can exist far out,
se exceeds the amount of resources in our universe. So if you wanna,
you can't make every possible protein of length, um, you know,
200 amino acids. There's not enough resources. So in order to,
for this particular protein to exist,
and this protein to exist in high abundance means that you have to have a system
that has knowledge of the existence of that protein and can build it.
So existence comes to be at the chemical level. So existence is most, uh,
is, uh, best understood at the chemical level.
It's most evident.
It's a little bit like nobody argues that gravity doesn't exist in anatomic
nucleus. It's just not relevant physics there.
So the physics of information is everywhere.
It exists at every combinatorial scale, but it becomes more and more relevant.
The more set of possibilities that could exist, because you're, you're, you're,
you have to specify more and more about why this thing exists and not the
infinite. It's not an <inaudible>, but you know,
the set of undefined set of other things that could exist.